animal extinction is something that's
been going on almost as long as they've
been animals it can happen as a result
of a major natural catastrophe like a
meteorite impact or simply because some
other animal finds them irresistible
tasty but more than ever before we're
becoming aware of the impact that our
own activities are having on animal
species the dodo for instance was lost
forever just 70 years after its
discovery in 1598 probably after ship
rats that came with the pioneers spread
across their native Mauritius eating
dodo eggs and out competing them for
food and more recently in 1936 we
lamented the death of the last hasmonean
tiger in captivity after they were
hunted and out competed and squeezed out
of their habitat in the wild so while
extinction might be a natural part of
ecological evolution it's become clear
that invasive disruptive humans aren't
helping the situation n2 therefore the
IUCN Red List in 1964 the International
Union for Conservation of Nature devised
a way of classifying the threat level to
certain species based on the information
we have about their population and
distribution the idea of an animal being
vulnerable endangered or critically
endangered stems from this list along
with an international awareness of the
dangers that some species are in to date
over 76,000 animals have been assessed
with more than 22,000 found to be at
some risk of extinction those are some
scary numbers but it's not all bad news
the IUCN Red List has been pivotal in
focusing our efforts on saving species
most at risk before they go the way of
the dodo
now some fifty two years after its
inception conservationists efforts are
beginning to bear fruit Przewalski's
horse is considered the only true wild
horse with its short upright mane which
grows and sheds each year documented in
cave paintings over 20,000 years old
it was native to Central Asia
interbreeding with domestic horses led
to its decline
and by the end of the 1960s they had
completely disappeared from Mongolia
only a few remained in captivity those
specimens still remained were cared for
and carefully bred and released back
into the wild over a period of nearly
forty years and today there's a healthy
population of more than 2000 individuals
most of them in their native Mongolia
Plus and naturally reproducing herd
within an unmanaged a wildlife refuge
within the Chernobyl exclusion zone in
the Krays these horses have really been
brought back from the brink and the IUCN
have been delighted to raise their
classification from extinct in the wild
to merely endangered also in Asia the
literal poster child of animal
protection and conservation by the World
Wildlife Fund for Nature is the giant
panda these herbivores can weigh up to
150 kilos and yet 99% of their diet is
just bamboo a lot of bamboo they can eat
38 kilos of it a day just to meet their
energy needs their population has been
in decline as a result of their habitat
being squeezed by advancing agriculture
and urban development and it doesn't
help that they've got a pretty ponderous
approach to meeting so when the
remaining population was broken up they
faced a continual decline without
intervention in 1980 there were less
than 1,000 pandas left they were
classified as endangered by the IUCN but
strict conservation measures seemed to
have turned the tide now there's a
20-year prison sentence for killing one
of these gentle beasts while the
protected forest areas they live in have
been expanded to cover more than 1,400
square kilometers today there are more
than one thousand eight hundred and
fifty individuals in the wild in 35
separate populations which represent a
rise of more than 16 percent over the
last ten years
they're not out of the woods yet though
giant pandas are still vulnerable
but with continuing care and
conservation we can expect their numbers
to keep growing just as soon as they get
around to meeting instead or eating but
it's not always such an easy ride and
all too often
conservation efforts are in conflict
with continuing human expansion and
exploitation rhinos have been another
recipient of massive conservation
publicity and many of their populations
have also been brought back from the
brink southern white rhinos are arguably
one of Conservation's and greatest
success stories in the late 19th century
they were thought to have gone extinct
hunted for their horns but in 1895 a
small group of 100 individuals were
discovered in South Africa a century of
protection later and there are now more
than 20,000 southern white rhinos in
protected areas across South Africa
Namibia Zimbabwe and Kenya with a 200
fold increase in population they're now
classed as near threatened and are the
only species of rhinos that are no
longer endangered but sadly that's not
the case for their cousins the northern
white rhinos this subspecies has been
reduced to just three individuals by
intense poaching for their horn habitat
loss and many a failed attempt to breed
the last hope for this species is no
longer conservation but medical science
as researchers race to develop IVF
techniques that could only keep their
lineage alive but only time will tell if
they succeeded on the whole though many
conservation efforts are succeeding
giving species that are clinging on to
their existence a new lease of life what
animal would you like to see roaming the
wilds again let me know in the comments
below and give us a like and subscribe
for more science and nature videos 5 now